Data Preparation Documentation (#4569)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/data-preparation/smart-functions-bundle/limits.md

- Across shards, invocations run concurrently. There is no ordering guarantee between different `clientID`s.

**Per-shard runtime isolation**:

- Each shard has its own Javascript runtime instance. Code loaded in one shard is not visible in another, even for the same rule.
- The platform may reinstantiate runtimes at any time --- for example, after rule updates, scaling events, or recovery from errors.
- This is the reason global state is not shared across invocations: even if your code runs back-to-back for the same `clientID`, the runtime may have been reinstantiated between calls.

### State handling {#statelessness}

Smart functions must not rely on global Javascript state to persist data between invocations.

- Top-level `let`, `const`, and `var` declarations may be reset between calls. Do not store mutable data in them.
- Module-level objects (caches, counters) are unreliable because runtimes can be recreated at any time.
- Static configuration loaded once at module load is acceptable, as long as you accept it may be reloaded at any time.

> If you need state across messages, persist it externally (for example, by emitting it as a Cumulocity object).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need state across messages, persist it externally (for example, by emitting it as a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} object).
```

Reviewer 2: 1853ac0cb

### Synchronous vs. asynchronous functions {#sync-vs-async}

You can declare your smart function as synchronous or `async`. The platform handles both forms:

- **Synchronous**: returns an array directly. 
- **Asynchronous**: returns a `Promise` that resolves to an array. This promise will be immediately resolved. Use for calling libraries which use an async API.

Even when async, the function executes serially within its shard. The platform waits for the promise to resolve before moving to the next message in the same shard. Async does not give you parallelism within a shard.

### Error handling {#error-handling}

If your function throws synchronously, the returned promise rejects, or the return values are not parseable:

- The message that caused the error is dropped.
- An error is logged with the function name, error message, and (where possible) stack trace.
- An alarm is raised on the tenant with the failing device message and the error.
- The platform does not retry the message.
- The shard continues processing the next message.

To drop a message without raising an error, return an empty array (`[]`).

### Logs {#logs}

> All output written with `console.log`, `console.info`, `console.warn`, `console.error`, and `console.debug` is written to the Apama microservice log file. For per-tenant microservices, this log is visible in the Administration application. More detail is available in the [Streaming Analytics documentation](/streaming-analytics/troubleshooting/#logfiles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All output written with `console.log`, `console.info`, `console.warn`, `console.error`, and `console.debug` is written to the Apama microservice log file. For per-tenant microservices, this log is visible in the Administration application. More details are available in the [Streaming Analytics documentation](/streaming-analytics/troubleshooting/#logfiles).
```

Reviewer 2: 1853ac0cb
